---
title: "Feb 8 2018 Notes"
date: 2018-02-08T00:30:45-05:00
draft: false
tags: ["Chapter0", "18.408"]
---

# Algebra : Chapter 0

Free group on \\(A\\) is initial in the category of objects \\((G, j:A\to G)\\)
where the first one is a group and second one injective, and group morphisms that make that commute.

Kernel of \\( \phi : G\to G^{\prime} \\) is final among the category of morphisms 
\\(\alpha\\) such that \\(\phi \circ\alpha \\) is trivial. 

Subgroup generated by \\(A\subset G\\) is image of the unique morphism 
\\(F(A)\to G\\).

Given an equivalence, the quotient \\(\pi : G\to G/\sim\\) is initial among morphisms 
\\(\phi : G\to G^{\prime}\\) such that \\(a\sim a^{\prime}\Rightarrow \phi(a) = \phi(a^{\prime})\\).

If \\(H\subset G\\) is normal we have the projection \\(\pi:G \to G/H\\). Then if \\(\phi : G \to G^{\prime}\\) is such that 
\\(H\subset \ker(\phi)\\) (so \\(\phi(H) = e\\) or \\(\phi \circ \iota : H\to G^{\prime}\\)
is trivial), then there exist unique \\(\tilde{\phi} : G/H\to G^{\prime}\\)
such that \\(\phi = \tilde{\phi} \circ \pi\\).
That is, \\(\pi\\) is initial in the category of maps which move \\(H\\) to \\(e\\).

Every group homomorphism \\(\phi : G\to G^{\prime}\\) accepts a decomposition 
\\(G \twoheadrightarrow G / \ker \phi \simeq \text{im } \phi  \hookrightarrow G^{\prime}\\).

In particular, if the map is surjective, we have 
\\(G / \ker \phi \simeq \text{im } \phi  \simeq G^{\prime}\\).

# 18.408

Properties of laplacian:

* If \\(G,H\\) on same nodes with disjoint edges, then 
\\(L_{G\cup H} = L_G + L_H\\).
* If vertex is isolated, the row and column of that is zero.
* \\(L_{G\coprod H} = L_G \oplus L_H \\)

(Can we think \\(L_{-}\\) as a functor from groups to vector spaces, maybe preserving coproducts?)

So laplacian is sum of laplacian of connected components. The eigenvalues of the direct sum of 
matrices is the union of the eigenvalues of the matrices.

Let \\(L_e\\) be the laplacian on \\(n\\) vertices and only the edge \\(e\\).

Incident amtrix is \\(\Delta_{e, w}\\) if \\(e  = (w,v)\\) and \\(v < w\\) is 1,
if \\(v > w\\) is -1, else 0. We have \\(L = \nabla^T \nabla\\).
Corollarly: \\(x^T L_G x = \lVert \nabla_G x\rVert^2\\). 
We have \\([\nabla_G x]_e = x_i -x_j\\)

Suppose \\(G\\) is connected. Take \\(x\in \ker(L_G)\\). We have \\(L_Gx = 0 \Rightarrow
x^TL_Gx=0 \\). We have that this is zero, so any two adjacent are equal. Because connected,
we have that all are equal. So the kernel is just \\(\langle\mathbf{1}\rangle\\).

In particular if \\(G\\) is connected, the second eigenvalue is positive.

Eigenvectors of (laplacian of) ring graph is basically just \\(e^{\text{something}}\\).

Eigenvectors of pathh graph, we are taking a projection from the ring graph to the path graph
such that all the things that pproject to the same point have same eigenvalues. And we get 
line by free.