---
title: "Mar 14 2018 Notes"
date: 2018-03-14T09:33:35-04:00
draft: false
tags: ["18.S996"]
---

# 18.S996

Resuming notes because there are not notes online. 

Action learning setup: The one already seen.
$\mathcal{F}_i(t+1)$ is generated by $(x_i(0), A_j(s) : s\leq t , j\sim i)$.

No atomic beliefs so no ties.
Action learning theorem (M, Sly, Tamuz (2012))

A directed graph $G$ is $L$-connected if it's strongly connected and
for every edge $(i,j)$, there's a path $j\to i$ of lenght at most $L$.
We have that $1$-connected is an undirected graph.

Royal family: When agents fail to learn. 

We have $p_i(t) = P[A_i(t) = S]$, $i$-th agent at $t$ time is right. 
Depends only in $B_i(t)$, neighbors at time $t$. 

Strategy: $p(G) = Pr(graph\; correct)= \sup_t p_t(i)$, regardless of $i$. 

$B_r(G,i)$ is the rooted graph induced by all the vertices at distance at most $r$
from $i$.

Topology: metric = $d((G,i),(H,j)) = 2^{-s}$ where $s = \sup\{r: B_r(G,i)\cong B_r(H,j)\}$.

Local convergence: $(G_n,i_n) \to (G,i)$ if for eah $t > 0$, for large enough 
neighbors $B_t(G_n,i_n)$ is isomorphic to $B_t(G,i)$.

Claim: $(G_n, i_n) \to (G,i)$, then $p(G) \leq \liminf p(G_n)$.
In particular, no learning in each of the graphs, implies no learning in limit.

Fix $i,G$. Look at $p_t(i) = p_{t,G_n}(i_n)$ for all large enough $n$,
because $B_t(G,i) \cong B(G_n,i_n)$ for big enough graphs. 
We have that $p_{t,G_n}(i_n)\leq p(G_n)$.
Implies $p_t(i) \leq \liminf p(G_n)$. Because $p(G) = \sup_t p_t(i)$,
this implies $p(G)\leq \liminf p(G_n)$.

Claim: If $(G_n, i_n) \to (G,i)$ are $L$-connected and $G$ is strongly conneced
, then $G$ is $L$_connected.
Proof: Since $(G,i)$ is strongly connected, we have 
$(G,i) = \bigcup_r B_r(G,i)$. If $j\to k \in E$, then $j\to k$
in $B_r(G,i)$ for some. Then $B_{r+L}(G,i)\cong B_{r+L}(G_n,i_n)$ for large $n$,
for some $r'$. Hence there's a path in $B_{r'}(G_n,i_n)

Space of $G$: All countable $L$-connected, $D$-degree bounded graphs.

Lemma: This space is compact.
Proof: Suppose $(G_n,i_n)$ cauchy. 
Diagonal argument: Since all degree are $\leq D$, there's has to be $d\leq D$
such that infinitely man graphs have degree $i_n = d$. 
Take the infinite subsequence that has this.
Take $(G_{n_1},i_{n_1})$ this graph. 
Look at all possible neighbors of radius $2$, there are finitely many, there's
a subsequence that repeats. Take this subsequence. Take $(G_{n_2},i_{n_2})$.
Look at all the possible neighbors of radius $3$, etc.

Hence we get $(G_{n,k},i_{n_k})$ that after $k_0$, all the $k_0$ have the same
radius $k_0$. Take the union of the (common) subgraphs. How do you have that 
it's connected? The two points come from some radius, take the maximum,
look at the graph that it looks from, that's connected, so it's connected
inside. We win.

Conclussion: To prove the theorem (which theorem), just show that $p(G)$= 1
for all infinite connected graphs $L-$connected graphs $G$.

Let $p^{*} = \inf_{G\text{ infinite}}$

Assumption: Exist infinite, $L$-connected,$D$-ddegre $G$.
(Assume $G$ is vertex transitive)


Definition: $\epsilon$-independent if $Z_1 \sim D_1,Z_2 \sim D_2$
with $(Z_1,Z_2)\sim D$ is $\epsilon$-close 
to the product of their marginal distributions. 
So $\left||D - D_1\times D_2\right||_1\leq 2$

Definition: $\epsilon$-equality if $P[Z_1\neq Z_2]\leq \varepsilon$.

If $Z_1$ $\epsilon$-equal $Z_2$, $\epsilon'$ independent $Z_3$,
then $Z_1$ $(2\epsilon+\epsilon')$ independent $Z_3$.

The goal is that we want to prove something is independent of itself. In general,
to prove zero-one laws, we do this.

Denote $A = \lim_t A_i(t) = \lim_t A_j(t)$. We have that 
$\lim_t P[A_i(t) \neq A] \to 0$ as $t\to\infty$ for any $i$.

Transitivity: For every $\epsilon$, there's a large enough $t_{\epsilon}$
(independent from the vertex) such that 
$P[A_i(t_{\epsilon}) \neq A] <\varepsilon$ for all $i$.

Condiitonal in the state of the world, 
we have that $A$ $\epsilon$ equal $A_i(t)$, independent $A_j(t)$, $\epsilon$ equal $A$.
Collapsing, we have $A$ $4\epsilon$ independent from $A$. But we can show 
$P[A = S] > \frac{1}{2}$, so $P[A = S] = 1$.



(We are taking graph limits, but these are different from the graphons. I wonder if there's
a way to generalize it that way instad)

Note that for every $i$ and any $\varepsilon'$ positive, there exist $t'$ and $\mathcal{F}_{t'}$
measurable $\tilde{A}$ such that $P[A = \tilde{A}]\geq 1-\varepsilon'$.

Check $G$ rooted at different places. Use compactness to get $(G,i_l)$ subsequence.
converging to $(H,i^{\ast})$. We can find $j^{\ast}\in H$ with $k$ informative times 
by time $t^{\ast}$.
By the limit, we can map it back to the ball around some $(G, j)$. 
This will also transfer the $k$ informative times. We have that $j$ eventually will learn,
so we have $k+1$ informative times.

* Same proof applies to bounded degree $L$-connected graph.
* Finite to infinite principle
* Like many to infinite proofs, no rate